---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Go Baby Go!
date: 2022-10-03T19:06:57.766Z
description: >+
  Baby will crawl when he’s good and ready. But you can encourage the process
  along by giving him opportunities to move.

featuredpost: true
featuredimage: /img/screen-shot-2022-10-03-at-3.09.13-pm.png
---
Baby will crawl when he’s good and ready. But you can encourage the process along by giving him opportunities to move.



If baby is just starting to move around on his tummy, then lay him on his playmat and place an object, like a toy or teether, just out of reach. This will encourage him to reach and eventually move toward it. 



Another idea is to use a mobile. Once baby is on his tummy, dangle a mobile in front of him. Then, slowly move (with the mobile in hand) to one side. Baby will follow by rotating on their tummy. Keep moving and so will baby. Before you know it baby will have completed an entire rotation, and realize “wow, I can move quite a bit!”



Once baby realizes he can move, give him opportunities to do so! Here are some ideas to try.



**1﻿. Play Chase**

This was my favorite way to get my baby moving. It was a lot of fun for me and baby!



I’d place a ball two or three feet from my son. He’d charge after it. 



His reward was touching and mouthing the ball.



Then, I’d help him give the ball a roll (though he eventually figured out how to make it roll on his own). There it’d go, rolling across the floor. Once again, he’d go charging after it. 



This would go on for some time until baby needed a well deserved break!



**2. Set up a mirror**

Babies love to look at themselves in a mirror. It’s a fascination that begins early in life, and continues through this learning to crawl phase. 



Prop up a mirror on a wall, a few feet from baby. Baby will see himself in the mirror and will dart toward it. He’ll love watching himself move!



**3. Use a pull toy**

My son loved chasing a wooden alligator pull toy around his playroom.  



Sometimes when he got close, I’d move the alligator. And he’d go after it again. Other times I’d let him grab the alligator and play with him -- until the alligator was ready to move once again!



Building any skill, including crawling, involves practice. You’ve got to do the thing that you want to get better at each day. 



Crawling is no different. 



Baby will move when he’s motivated to do so. If there’s something desirable to go after, he’ll figure out how to get there. So keep baby motivate to move each day!